# Dictionary-Creater-Spellchecker
A repository for a small program I made that creates a dictionary from a given file, then uses that dictionary to check the spelling mistakes of another.

**Dictionary Generator**

Write a Python program to read in text from a nominated file (words1.txt on Learning@Griffith), identify words, and add them to a trie tree structure. You must use the supplied Python code (at the end of this question) which partially implements a trie data structure but you will need to create a class from this code and add extra methods as required. If the program encounters a word that is not in the trie, then it adds it to the trie, otherwise it ignores that word and looks for the next.  Convert all letters to lower-case so that “The” and “the” will count as two occurrences of the same word. A word consists of letters (a .. z, A .. Z) and a possible apostrophe (e.g. can’t) or a hyphen (co-processor). Note that words containing numbers are ignored. A hyphen at the end of a line probably suggests a word that is split, therefore delete it and combine the two pieces. A hyphen in the middle of a line suggests a hyphenated word, thus “co-processor” is a single word. This scheme might miss some hyphenated words that happen to be split by the end of a line. Once the entire source document is processed, the trie should be saved to disk using Python pickle. Then each word from the trie should be extracted and stored in a binary search tree and also in an AVL tree (using the Python code provided in the course ebook). The vital statistics of both trees (number of nodes and maximum depth) should be reported to the user. By timing the accessing of every word in each of the trie, binary search tree and AVL tree you can measure the processing efficiency of the three data structures and, by using portions of the file, see how the statistics and performance scale as the number of words changes. In addition, using Python pickle, you can get an estimate of the space efficiency of the trie, binary search tree and the AVL tree. An in-order traversal of the AVL tree must be used to produce an alphabetical listing of all the words found in the input. Store the resulting sorted strings into the file “dict.txt” separating each word with a newline. 

**Spell Checker**

Write a Python program that, using Python pickle, reads in the trie that was generated in the previous program. The program should then read in text from a file (words2.txt on Learning@Griffith), identifying words in the same way as the first program and checking them against the trie. If a match is not found then the line containing the high-lighted mismatched word should be reported to the user along with some suggested spellings. Your program should also check for consecutive multiple words or characters and appropriate upper casing of the first letter at the start of each sentence. 
